# Commandline Options

The `vic` compiler can accept commandline options that mainly allow the user to
_reuse_ code for other Microchip's PIC&reg; MCUs and modify the `pragma` statements on the
fly.

Here is a list of the commandline options currently supported in both short and
long form:

- `-h`, `--help`:
    This option displays the help message for the compiler.

- `--version`:
    This option displays the version number of the compiler.

- `--list-chips`:
    This option lists the microcontroller chips supported by the compiler.

- `--list-simulators`:
    This option lists the simulators supported by the compiler.

- `--verbose`:
    This option turns on verbose printing of the compiler during compile time. This is different
from the `--debug` or `--intermediate` options which are for the compiled code.

- `-d`, `--debug`:
    This option turns on internal debugging of the compiler's parser. The user
should not have to use this option unless filing a bug report. It is mainly for
the developers.

- `-i`, `--intermediate`:
    This option embeds the intermediate code generated by the compiler into the
assembly outputs as comments. This can be used by the user to view how the
compiler generates code for the VIC&trade; statements and by the developer for
debugging code generation.

- `-o <FILE>`, `--output <FILE>`:
    This option tells the compiler to save the assembly output to the `FILE`
argument provided. If the user does not provide this option the compiler
prints the assembly output to the screen(`stdout`).

- `-p <MCU Target>`, `--pic <MCU Target>`:
    This is the most **useful** of all options where the user can compile a code
written for one type of Microchip's PIC&reg; MCU target for a different MCU target. This
enables the user to achieve the following goals:

    1. allow for code reuse between MCUs, allowing compilation to various targets
    1. verify if a piece of code can work on another Microchip's PIC&reg; MCU without reading that MCU's data sheet
    1. find out the parts of the code which will _not_ work on another MCU

- `--supports <MCU Target>`:
    This is similar to the `-p` option above except that it does _not_ compile any
code. It can be used by the user or any other external program to verify if a
certain MCU target is supported by `vic`. If it is not supported, the code
cannot be compiled to that target.

- `--list-features <MCU Target>`:
    This is similar to the `--supports` option above except that it also lists
the features supported by the chip. This automatically turns on the `--supports`
option.

- `--list-gputils`:
    This option lets the user know where the `gpasm` and `gplink` tools are
located on the current system for the `gputils` package. The `vic` compiler
checks the system install paths as well as any installs done by
`Alien::gputils`.

- `--no-hex`:
    The `vic` compiler automatically looks for `gpasm` and `gplink` to create
the appropriate `.hex` file for use by the `pk2cmd` or other programming
software. If the user does not want to generate the `.hex` file then they should
use this option. This is especially useful if `gputils` is installed and the
user does not want to compile the `.hex` file.

Based on these options here are some sample examples on how to use them:

    $ vic -o helloworld.asm helloworld.vic
    $ vic -p p16f631 -o helloworld.hex helloworld.vic
    $ vic -h
    $ vic -V
    # to compile only to assembly and not a hex file
    $ vic -i -o helloworld.asm helloworld.vic
    $ vic -i -o helloworld.hex --no-hex helloworld.vic
    $ vic --list-chips
    $ vic --list-simulators
    $ vic --supports P12F683
    $ vic --list-chip-features P16F685
    $ vic --list-gputils

Now that we have learned enough about using the `vic` compiler, let us move on
to studying the various available in-built functions for VIC&trade;.

@@NEXT@@ functions.md @@PREV@@ syntax.md
